Assignment No: -6
Title:-
To create cursors: Implicit, Explicit Parameterized Cursor, Cursor FOR Loop.

Learning Objectives:-
To create implicit and explicit cursor.

Learning Outcomes:-
The ability to work with cursors to operate relational database.

Theory:-
Cursors:-
To handle a result set inside a stored procedure, you use a cursor. A cursor allows you to iterate a
set of rows returned by a query and process each row accordingly.
Working with MySQL cursor.
1. Declaration of Cursor : To declare a cursor you must use the DECLARE statement.
Syntax : DECLARE cursor_name CURSOR FOR select_statement;
2. Open a cursor statement : For open a cursor we must use the open statement. If we want to fetch rows from it you must open the cursor.
Syntax : OPEN cursor_name;
3. Cursor fetch statement : When we have to retrieve the next row from the cursor and move the cursor
to next row then you need to fetch the cursor.
Syntax : FETCH cursor_name INTO var_name;
4. Cursor close statement : By this statement closed the open cursor.
Syntax: CLOSE_name;
By this statement we can close the previously opened cursor. If it is not closed explicitly then a
cursor is closed at the end of compound statement in which that was declared.
Implicit Cursors:
Implicit cursors are automatically created by Oracle whenever an SQL statement is executed, when
there is no explicit cursor for the statement. Programmers cannot control the implicit cursors and the
information in it. Whenever a DML statement (INSERT, UPDATE and DELETE) is issued, an
implicit cursor is associated with this statement. For INSERT operations, the cursor holds the data
that needs to be inserted. For UPDATE and DELETE operations, the cursor identifies the rows that
would be affected.

Explicit Cursors:
Explicit cursors are programmer-defined cursors for gaining more control overthe context area. An
explicit cursor should be defined in the declaration section of the PL/SQL Block. It is created on a
SELECT Statement which returns more than one row.
The syntax for creating an explicit cursor is −
CURSOR cursor_name IS select_statement;
Working with an explicit cursor includes the following steps −
 Declaring the cursor for initializing the memory
 Opening the cursor for allocating the memory
 Fetching the cursor for retrieving the data
 Closing the cursor to release the allocated memory

Conclusion:Thus we have studied all types
of cursors in pl/sql.
